chore: New documentation page translations_states and updated project settings (#914)
tolgee/documentation: platform/translation_process/translation_states.mdx

---
id: translation_states
title: Understanding Translation States
sidebar_label: Translation States

> description: Tolgee organizes translations into three states, each visually shown by a colored bar near the translated key.

Reviewer: I wouldn't say that states are for `organization`, please consult chatGPT for better explanation.

---

import { ScreenshotWrapper } from '../shared/_ScreenshotWrapper';

> Translation management is important when you work in a big team and want to ensure that when you translate text, the quality meets your standards. Changing the status of each translation helps teams work together well. You might want to approve or flag a translation as ready. Tolgee has a feature to simplify the process of approval.

Reviewer: It's not just for big teams, its even for small teams to track the state of each language, I wouldn't say it has something to do with team size. 

I don't even think it primarily helps teams to work together well. It's really more about to track which translations are we sure about and which need a review... 

Sorry, but it just sounds a bit like ChatGPT sauce.

## The Three Translation States

> Tolgee organizes translations into three states, each visually shown by a colored bar near the translated key:

Reviewer: `organizes` is not the right way to call it.

- **Gray**: Untranslated
- **Yellow**: Translated but not reviewed
- **Green**: Reviewed

<ScreenshotWrapper
  src="/img/docs/platform/translation-states-example.png"
  alt="Quality assurance in translation three states"
/>

> The color-coding feature helps managers and translators to check the status of a translation. This system makes it visual and easy to go through, especially if you are working with a large number of keys.

Reviewer: I don't think the amount of keys is relevant. What is large? 100, 1000, 10000? It helps event when there is 50 keys...

## Working with Translation States

> To see the translation keys and the translations, go to the translation tab in Tolgee. You will see translations in your primary language. To show more languages of your project, you can do the following:

Reviewer: We don't call it "translation tab", but translations view.
We don't call it `primary language.`, but base language.

Please create some terminology document where we will store this project glossary.

1. Click on the language bar at the top right that shows the currently selected languages
2. Select the project languages that you want to see and check
3. Now you can view all the translations and work with the states

### Quality Assurance in Translation

The reviewer of the project usually performs the following functions with Tolgee:

- **Approving**: To change a translation from "Translated" to "Reviewed" status, click the "Mark as Reviewed" button at the top right corner of the translation.
- **Reverting Approvals**: If a previously approved translation needs changes, use the same button to change it back to "Translated" status
- **Comments**: Use comments to provide feedback or explain why it was not approved

> - **Tracking Changes:** Go to Edit to see the history of changes

Reviewer: "Go to Edit", is suddenly changing the explanations to some king of "how to" form. 
```suggestion
- **Tracking Changes:** See the string history in bottom part of the side panel when translation is open for editing
```

![Translation Guide](/img/docs/platform/tolgee-translation-states-guide.gif)

## Benefits of State-Based Translation Management

There are a few advantages of the state-based approach:

1. Visual indicators show your project progress
2. It makes sure translations meet quality standards after the review

> 3. The history tab shows which decisions were made and when they were made.

Reviewer: Not sure if history is relevant to `State-Based` approach.
